FIG_1.png
Fig. 1. The main components of the system. a MIDI file that defines when each instrument starts and stops playing a specific note, a file that contains the standard conducting gestures, and data captured by the Kinect device representing the conductor’s gestures (which control the music’s tempo and dynamics, i.e., the variation in both speed and loudness, respectively). The MIDI Processor analyzes the Note events from the input file, mapping the extracted musical data to their visual representat

FIG_2.png
Fig. 2. Four basic conducting pattern diagrams (images generated by the authors). music using both hands. Basically, the path traced by the user’s gestures is divided into small segments. Considering the movement of the user’s hand has the same direction as the current segment (i.e., if the dot product between the vectors of the tracked movement and of the current segment of the reference gesture is greater than a pre-established acceptable similarity threshold), the next segment is evaluated, a

FIG_3.png
Fig. 3. On the top and bottom, respectively, Newton’s and Castel’s color maps (remade by the authors, adapted from [30]). 3

FIG_4.png
Fig. 4. Visual representation of the intensity of the touch: “weak” on the left and “strong” on the right. Fig. 5. Musical instruments and the five sections modelled in the system.

FIG_6.png
Fig. 6. Score of the Ninth Symphony. 5

FIG_7.png
Fig. 7. Animation frame showing the emitters of the two trombones, gener­ ating particles of the same color (although they have different score markings). 5

FIG_8.png
Fig. 8. Animation frame showing the voice emitters turned off, since in the score there is a rest. The path followed by the conductor’s gesture is also visualized on screen in real-time during system execution.

FIG_9.png
Fig. 9. Animation frame with the particle emitters on the left highlighted. Fig. 10. Animation frame showing the increase of particles size, in relation to the amplitude of the executed gesture. The path followed by the conductor’s gesture is also visualized on screen in real-time during system execution.

FIG_10.png
Fig. 10. Animation frame showing the increase of particles size, in relation to the amplitude of the executed gesture. The path followed by the conductor’s gesture is also visualized on screen in real-time during system execution. particular, all professional conductors from our test group have over 20 years of experience, directing choirs and orchestras. The remaining professional musicians have reported having also prior conducting knowledge. Therefore, it was possible to create three groups o
